---
layout: single
title: "Final Cut Pro X on a MacBook Air"
date: 2011-09-05
categories: [technology]
tags:
- technology
---

When it comes to video editing I am a complete novice. A few supporting facts: 

* I have been a Vimeo Plus member since November 2007 yet I have only posted 65 videos. 
* All have been posted with the simplest of tools: iMovie, iMovie for iOS, Vimeo for iOS, etc. 
* I purchased Final Cut Pro X on July 2 and today was the first time I used it.
* Today I used about 0.0001% of the features included with Final Cut Pro X.

Any way you slice it...video editing is not my forte. Why should that stop me though?

Today I set aside a couple of hours and started playing with Final Cut Pro X...on my MacBook Air. Given my limited experience with video editing I was surprised[^fn-backlash] how easy it was to figure out the absolute basics (adding clips, titles, transitions, export). What *really* surprised me though was how well the MacBook Air was able to handle running Final Cut Pro X. I dropped in clips, transitions, made edits and never witnessed the beach ball. I even used the MacBook Air to process the video and upload directly to Vimeo[^fn-time]...not bad for such a portable device. 

There is no doubt that professional (and likely even amateur) users would never dream of using Final Cut Pro X on a MacBook Air, but for now it works just fine for me. And to prove my inadequate video editing (and video **taking**) skills the video I created...

<iframe src="http://player.vimeo.com/video/28639130?title=0&amp;byline=0&amp;portrait=0&amp;autoplay=0" width="800" height="450" frameborder="0"></iframe>

One quick tip...if you want to spin up on FCP X quickly? Israel Hyman (aka Izzy) freely provides the [best video tutorials][fcp-vids] I have found.

---

[^fn-backlash]: I was only a little surprised given the [backlash][gruber].
[^fn-time]: Unfortunately I did not capture an exact time, but it was under 20 minutes for a nearly 4 minute video. Maybe four months from now when I do my next video I will remember to capture the time.

[fcp-vids]: http://www.izzyvideo.com/final-cut-pro-x-tutorial/ "Izzy Video - Final Cut Pro X video tutorials"
[gruber]: http://daringfireball.net/2011/06/final_cut_pro_x_backlash "Final Cut Pro X Backlash by John Gruber on Daring Fireball"